[docs] Scala in Gitpod (#527)
gitpod-io/website: src/docs/scala-in-gitpod.md

# Scala in Gitpod

## Installing Scala

First, you'll probably want to install Scala. To do this, add a new file to your repository called [.gitpod.Dockerfile](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/), and add the following content to it:

```Dockerfile
FROM gitpod/workspace-full

RUN brew install scala
```

Additionally create a file called [.gitpod.yml](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) and add the following:

```YAML
image:
  file: .gitpod.Dockerfile
```

Now commit both files into source control.

> If you understand the snippet you may safely ignore the following 2 paragraphs

Let's break this down, first, we declare `FROM gitpod/workspace-full` this will have your project use the recommended default workspace image, you can use other ones but some of the following might not work with other base images.

Next, we declare `RUN brew install scala` this simply tells brew to install scala into the workspace image via brew.

## Using the Ammonite REPL

> ![The Ammonite REPL in action](images/AmmoniteRepl.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The Ammonite REPL in action](../images/AmmoniteRepl.png)
```

Say your project needs a specific Scala version you can use scalaenv a version manager for Scala, but first we must install it, as usual, we need to change our [.gitpod.Dockerfile](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/)

```Dockerfile
RUN brew install scalaenv
```

Commit the changes and then the tool will be installed in all future workspaces. Say you need Scala version `2.9.3` you would add the following to your [.gitpod.Dockerfile](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/)

```Dockerfile
RUN scalaenv install scala-2.9.3 && scalaenv global scala-2.9.3
```

## Using coursier an Artifact fetcher for Scala

coursier is useful for building certain projects and installing different tools.

```Dockerfile
RUN brew install coursier/formulas/coursier
```

Don't forget to commit the changes!

## Formatting Scala code with scalafmt

To install scalafmt to your repository please add the following to your [.gitpod.Dockerfile](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/)

```Dockerfile
USER root

RUN coursier bootstrap org.scalameta:scalafmt-cli_2.12:2.4.2 \
  -r sonatype:snapshots \
  -o /usr/local/bin/scalafmt --standalone --main org.scalafmt.cli.Cli

> USER gitpod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUN sudo coursier bootstrap org.scalameta:scalafmt-cli_2.12:2.4.2 \
  -r sonatype:snapshots \
  -o /usr/local/bin/scalafmt --standalone --main org.scalafmt.cli.Cli

Author: sudo coursier errors

```

> Then to format the code simply run `scalafmt`!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then to format your code simply run `scalafmt`!
```

## Putting it all together

> A full example of a [.gitpod.Dockerfile](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/) configured for Scala could look something like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full example of a [.gitpod.Dockerfile](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/) configured for Scala could look something like:
```

```Dockerfile
FROM gitpod/workspace-full

USER gitpod

RUN sudo sh -c '(echo "#!/usr/bin/env sh" && curl -L https://github.com/lihaoyi/Ammonite/releases/download/2.0.4/2.13-2.0.4) > /usr/local/bin/amm && chmod +x /usr/local/bin/amm' 

RUN brew install scala coursier/formulas/coursier sbt scalaenv

USER root

RUN coursier bootstrap org.scalameta:scalafmt-cli_2.12:2.4.2 \
  -r sonatype:snapshots \
  -o /usr/local/bin/scalafmt --standalone --main org.scalafmt.cli.Cli

USER gitpod

> RUN scalaenv install scala-2.9.3 && scalaenv global scala-2.9.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FROM gitpod/workspace-full

RUN sudo sh -c '(echo "#!/usr/bin/env sh" && curl -L https://github.com/lihaoyi/Ammonite/releases/download/2.0.4/2.13-2.0.4) > /usr/local/bin/amm && chmod +x /usr/local/bin/amm' 

RUN brew install scala coursier/formulas/coursier sbt scalaenv

RUN sudo coursier bootstrap org.scalameta:scalafmt-cli_2.12:2.4.2 \
  -r sonatype:snapshots \
  -o /usr/local/bin/scalafmt --standalone --main org.scalafmt.cli.Cli

RUN scalaenv install scala-2.9.3 && scalaenv global scala-2.9.3
```

Author: See above

```

> You will notice all the `brew install` commands are on the same line I recommend if you are installing more than one of these you put them on the same line for [Docker reasons](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/#minimize-the-number-of-layers) that we won't get into right now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will notice all the `brew install` commands are on the same line. We recommend to group similar commands together in order to minimize the number of [Docker layers](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/#minimize-the-number-of-layers).
```

## VSCode Extensions

### Scala Syntax (official)

> ![Scala Syntax demo](images/scala-syntax.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Scala Syntax demo](../images/scala-syntax.png)
```

> Scala Syntax adds basic syntax highlighting for scala and sbt files to add it add the following to your [.gitpod.yml](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scala Syntax adds basic syntax highlighting for Scala and `sbt` files. To get it, add the following to your [.gitpod.yml](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) file:
```

```YAML
vscode:
  extensions:
    - scala-lang.scala@0.3.9:kklqw+c/dNRmtTU8B5repw==
```

## Try it!

> To see a minimal [gitpodified](https://www.gitpod.io/blog/gitpodify/) repository with all the tools we covered, see [gitpod-io/Gitpod-Scala](https://github.com/gitpod-io/Gitpod-Scala) you can also try it in the browser!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see a minimal example repository with a Gitpod configuration that installs all the tools we've covered, see [gitpod-io/Gitpod-Scala](https://github.com/gitpod-io/Gitpod-Scala). You can also try it in your browser:
```
